# Playlist Generation with OpenAI and Spotify

This repository contains a Python script for generating playlists using OpenAI's GPT-4 and Spotify's API.

## Getting Started

To use this script, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- Git

### Installation

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Jleue56/spotify-gpt.git
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

    alternatively, you could simply:
    ```bash
    pip install spotipy openai python_dotenv
    ```

### Setting Up Environment Variables

Before running the script, you need to set up environment variables. Create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project and add the following key-value pairs:<br>

OPENAI_API_KEY=XXXXXXXXX<br>
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID=XXXXXXXXX<br>
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET=XXXXXXXXX<br>
REDIRECT_URI=XXXXXXXXX (can use localhost with a port of your choice, such as http://localhost:9999, just make sure it matches what is on your spotify app!)<br>

#### attaining OPENAI_API_KEY
- head over to https://openai.com/blog/openai-api and create an account if needed.
- navigate to API keys tab, and hit `+ Create new secret key`
- make sure to save your secret key! It will NOT remember it for you.
- take that key and use it in your .env file like so: `OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key_here`

#### attaining SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID, SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET, and REDIRECT_URI
- head over to https://developer.spotify.com and log into your spotify account, click your profile and navigate to your Dashboard.
- hit `Create app`, give it a name and description, and *IMPORTANT*: provide a Redirect URI, for our purposes you can simply put `http://localhost:9999`, or whatever port you'd like.
- navigate to your new Spotify app and go to the settings for that app, here you will find Client ID, which you will paste in your .env as `SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here`, as well as a link to `view client secret`, there you will find the value that you need to paste into `SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret_here`. Finally, take that Redirect URI you chose and paste it into `REDIRECT_URI=your_redirect_uri_here`.

## Usage

The script provides a command-line interface for generating playlists with various options:

```bash
python3 main.py [-h] [-p PROMPT] [-n NUMBER] [-t TITLE] [-public]
```

Arguments and Flags:

*-p*: Specifies the prompt for the playlist. This argument accepts a string value and defaults to "classic rock and roll workout music" if not provided.<br>
*-n*: Specifies the number of songs in the playlist. This argument accepts an integer value and defaults to 8 if not provided. Note that the number of songs must be between 1 and 50.<br>
*-t*: Specifies the title of the playlist you are creating. This argument accepts a string value. If not provided, the title defaults to a combination of the provided prompt and "generated by GPT-4".<br>
*-public*: A flag to indicate if the playlist should be public. If included, the playlist will be set as public; otherwise, it will be private.<br>

example usage:
```bash
python3 main.py -p "electric music for playing videogames like dota 2" -t "Dota 2 Playlist" -n 1 -public 
```




